Nothing says love like a secret family recipe, especially when that recipe is created by your Godfather, and specifically when he bakes it for you on EVERY special day you have each year since birth.... birthdays, Christmas, 4th of July, New Years, graduating from college, getting engaged, on your wedding day (yes my wedding present was part bread and it was AWESOME), having kiddos etc... those kinda days.
My Uncle Lynn, who was not blood family, was my fathers best friend for over 50 years and his wife (Aunt Lois) were are the Godparents to myself and all of my siblings,truly our 2nd Dad. There was never a moment when he was not present with us, an all around good dude and a man of integrity in gigantic proportions.  
He was raised on a chicken farm in Kansas during the 1930's where he learned and credited his parents on how to do everything from raising livestock and fowl, fixing tractors, fences, barns and being resourceful in the kitchen.  This is where his love affair with food started, by helping his Mom scratch cook everything and I mean everything.  Everything but Chicken.  He hated chicken. Wouldn't eat it.
He was a very proud Navy Veteran. A pilot that never lost his yearning of being high above the landscape seeing life and all its beauty from the air, which included owning his own hot air balloon or part of one or however that works. He was dope. 
He had a love for baking that was rooted in family and ya, you could taste it in everything he made.  

You see, my Uncle Lynn was a proud man of few words, but a man of sincere action. To show how much he loved us he would shower us in his glorious concoction of carbs with his famous take on English Muffin bread. Its a family favorite and we looked forward to special family days because we knew this amazing loaf of deliciousness would show up.  
We have a family New Years Day brunch where you are required to be at where this bread is the center piece of the brunch... its that fucking good.
Christmas 2019 he shared the receipe with me, I asked for it for the 5,000th time and to my shock he walked me through how to make it. I did not know at the time he had terminal cancer.  He passed away September 2020 and I picked up the torch to carry it forward in his absence.  
I wrote the recipe down verbatim, in his own words, and that is what I am sharing with you today. 
This receipe will fill your heart and soul more than your tummy and I have been given family approval to share it with all of you. :heart:

I hope when you make this you do it with your family and make it something special although bread as a baby gift might need some explaining.   

May you feel the sun on your face and the butter be abundant on your english muffin bread....


Ingredients:
Yeast
Whole Milk
Water
Sugar
Salt
baking soda
Oats (old fashioned rolled not instant)
Unbleached/raw flour
corn meal

Wooden Spoon
Bowl 
loaf pans

Set oven to 130 degrees or lowest temp
Take 1 1/2 c water and 1 1/2 c whole milk 
Combine in pan and heat on stove to warm - make sure its warm not hot.  
 
Pour into mixing bowl
Add 2 packets of yeast, 1 tbsp sugar, 1 tbsp salt and 1/2 tsp baking soda
"mix it up...let the yeast activate"

Use 1/2c rolled oats and 1/2c unbleached or raw flour
"rotate 1/2 c flour and 1/2c oats - one at a time"
"Add...Fold...Add...Fold..."
"Make sure you use a wooden spoon"

Keep folding and adding until you get a good elasticity

Set aside

Spray loaf pans or use olive oil to coat
Sprinkle loaf pans with corn meal 
"get a good layer"
Split dough so it is just about 1/2 filling the baking dish - "it will spill over if you fill it to the top, thats not what you want"
Add pans to oven to rise for 10 mins
take pans out to rest

Set oven to 400 degrees
Bake for 20 mins













